the entire Asian region was recently
brought to a standstill when North Korea
attempted to launch a rocket into space
prompting Swift condemnation from the
entire international community to learn
more about why this happened InFocus
recently spoke to one of Cal's very own
Asian affairs experts professor Darren
Zook professor thank you so much for
joining us my pleasure as you know last
week North Korea launched a rocket into
space despite international objections
so the question is why do you think it
that well there's many reasons North
Korea is always a complicated if nothing
else they look at domestic reasons first
the Kim Jong Il was reported to have had
a stroke last August part of the reason
you have this missile test may have been
to show the world that just because Kim
jong-il was ill that in fact North Korea
is still strong he is still firmly in
power this week also happens to be the
opening of the V National People's
Congress which is kind of the North
Korea's Parliament and it may also have
been a really nice nationalistic
unifying thing right before you have
this meeting of all these people that
represent North Korea to give them
something to cheer about in terms of the
international audience there a number of
things that number of messages that Kim
Antonio is trying to send with this
launch the first is to Obama and in many
ways this is this is a message that says
you need to take it seriously and we are
going to negotiate with you if we
negotiate we're going to negotiate from
a position of strength as a position as
someone who considers ourselves to be
our equal to you not as someone who's
going to take orders from you now
the North Koreans did all this in the
face of really strong international
opposition and yet is it anyway how
could they have done this in the face of
such strong stiff and national
opposition I mean North Korea has a long
record of doing this and much of it
comes from the central ideology of the
North Korean state which is an ideology
called UJ which is often translated as
self-reliance and North Korea always has
the belief that international opposition
is not the matter that North Korea
really has to do what it has to do to
and it has to do so on its own timeframe
in its own way more opposition North
Korea in many ways simply gives it more
leverage and more publicity right so the
more people get worked up about I can't
believe that North Korea is going to do
this the more North Korean knows that
people are watching what do you think
more inclusion of North Korean works I
guess acceptance of it in the future
would that help ensure peace and
stability in that region it might but
see the problem is is North Korea always
wants the acceptance only on its own
terms I mean this is this goes back to
the sunshine policy period under Kim
dae-jung in South Korea in which the
idea was to kind of unconditionally
accept and embrace North Korea and over
time people looking very disenchanted
about that because North Korea seemed to
just take advantage of it do you see at
all a possibility of a peaceful solution
to this
sure I mean that there are a number of
ways to have a peaceful solution to this
and there are a number of ways that
North Korea would probably respond
positively what it's going to take
however is something outside the box or
something more imaginative than just
continually referring things to the
Security Council or adopting this kind
of collective hard-line stance that says
first you do what we want and only then
do we listen hopefully in the future
I'll change hopefully in the future
it'll change you know there's all sorts
of possibilities on the books
thank you my pleasure thanks for having
me on North Korea's recent rocket launch
reminded us all of the very real
potential instability that can result
from diplomatic failure and neglect as
the old cliche goes only time can tell
what can happen that very volatile
region and what we as the international
community can do about it thank you so
much for joining us here at InFocus
we'll hopefully see you back